add clarification to elasticsearch privileges (#4704)
camunda/camunda-docs: docs/self-managed/concepts/elasticsearch-privileges.md

title: "Elasticsearch privileges"
---

If you implement Camunda 8 with Elasticsearch as a service provider, the following [privileges](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/security-privileges.html) may be required:

## Cluster privileges

:::note Running Elasticsearch with limited cluster privileges
If an application cannot be granted cluster privileges, the schema manager can be run as a standalone application separate from the main application. In this setup, the single application does not need cluster privileges. To learn more, see [Elasticsearch without cluster privileges](./elasticsearch-without-cluster-privileges.md).
:::

- `monitor` - Required to check the Elasticsearch cluster health. This privilege provides read-only cluster operations permissions.

> - `manage_index_templates` - Creates the necessary index templates when Operate, Tasklist, and Optimize are started for the first time, or when updating to a newer version of Camunda 8. Once the index templates are created, you can stop the Component, remove this privilege, and then start Component again.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `manage_index_templates` - Creates the necessary index templates when the Orchestration Cluster, and Optimize are started for the first time, or when updating to a newer version of Camunda 8. Once the index templates are created, you can stop the Component, remove this privilege, and then start Component again.
```

> - `manage_ilm` - _Required when index lifecycle management (ILM) is enabled._ Required to create the necessary ILM policies when Operate, Tasklist, and Optimize are started for the first time, or when updating to a newer version of Camunda 8. Once the ILM policies are created, you can stop the Component, remove this privilege, and then start the Component again.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `manage_ilm` - _Required when index lifecycle management (ILM) is enabled._ Required to create the necessary ILM policies when the Orchestration Cluster is started for the first time, or when updating to a newer version of Camunda 8. Once the ILM policies are created, you can stop the Orchestration Cluster, remove this privilege, and then start the Orchestration Cluster again.
```

Additionally, to my knowledge, Optimize does not use the index lifecycle management (ILM) feature in ES.

> ### Backup privileges

Reviewer: Should it link to https://docs.camunda.io/docs/self-managed/concepts/elasticsearch-without-cluster-privileges/#standalone-backup-application? (Basically, the same as with the standalone schema manager)

Reviewer 2: I cannot find this content in `next` -- was this removed or moved?

Reviewer 2: The build is failing for this reason as well.

Reviewer: I don't know 😄

Reviewer: Probably you need to rebase the branch with `main` to get that page.

Reviewer 3: I would have to investigate this closer, but I know there is active work happening in the backup and restore space, which means this content may have moved.

Reviewer 2: Even when I search for the text for this page in `next` it doesn't show up anywhere in `next`, but the whole page could have been reworked. I dug through closed PRs but couldn't find anything. I'll take a closer look.

Reviewer 2: The standalone schema manager and backup apps were not forward-ported to 8.8 yet (implemented in 8.6 and 8.7 only)
This will be done in https://github.com/camunda/camunda/issues/28989 and https://github.com/camunda/camunda/issues/29668 and the documentation will be updated accordingly

@romansmirnov I would suggest we remove this link from the 8.8 docs for now.
